# 1. Introduction

Power BI is a Software as a Service (SaaS) offering from Microsoft that
facilitates self-service business intelligence dashboards, reports,
datasets, and visualizations. Power BI can connect to multiple,
different data sources, combine and shape data from those connections,
then create reports and dashboards to share with others.

The Power BI service is built on Azure. The Power BI service
architecture is based on two clusters: the Web Front End (WFE) cluster
and the Back-End cluster. End users neither control nor have visibility
into these underlying clusters, as they are part of the underlying SaaS
architecture. The WFE cluster manages the initial connection and
authentication to the Power BI service, and once authenticated, the
Back-End handles all subsequent user interactions. Power BI uses Azure
Active Directory (AAD) to store and manage user identities and manages
the storage of data and metadata using Azure Binary Large Object (BLOB)
and Azure Structured Query Language (SQL) Database, respectively. (For
additional detail, please refer to the [Power BI
Security](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/power-bi/enterprise/service-admin-power-bi-security)
documentation page.)

## 1.1 Scope

This baseline focuses on the Power BI SaaS service that comes integrated
with Microsoft 365, noting that there is also a desktop version of Power
BI that can be installed locally. Users who are developing business
intelligence products and analytics in Power BI desktop can push content
to either the Power BI Report Server or to the Power BI SaaS service
previously described. If required for a given environment or use case, a
separate Power BI desktop baseline with tailored security requirements
and considerations should be developed by security and end user
operations staff.

## 1.2 Resources

**<u>License Compliance and Copyright</u>**

Portions of this document are adapted from documents in Microsoft’s
[Microsoft
365](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/microsoft-365-docs/blob/public/LICENSE)
and
[Azure](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/azure-docs/blob/main/LICENSE)
GitHub repositories. The respective documents are subject to copyright
and are adapted under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0
International license. Source documents are linked throughout this
document. The United States Government has adapted selections of these
documents to develop innovative and scalable configuration standards to
strengthen the security of widely used cloud-based software services.

## 1.3 Assumptions

Agencies using Power BI have a data classification scheme in place for
  the data entering Power BI.

- Agencies may connect more than one data source to their Power BI
  tenant.

- All data sources use a secure connection for data transfer to and from
  the Power BI tenant; the agency disallows non-secure connections.

- The **License Requirements** sections of this document assume the
  organization is using an [M365
  E3](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-365/compare-microsoft-365-enterprise-plans)
  or [G3](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-365/government)
  license level. Therefore, only licenses not included in E3/G3 are
  listed. Additionally, M365 G5 is required for Power BI Pro. Power BI Premium is available as an add-on to G5 and provides
  dedicated capacity-based BI, self-service data prep for big data, and
  simplification of data management and access at enterprise scale.
  
  
# 2. Baseline

## 2.1 External Sharing SHOULD be Disabled 

External sharing can represent a potential security risk, therefore,
disabling it is a best practice unless specific, approved use cases make
it a necessity. As with the other collaboration capabilities within the
Power BI tenant, the agency must evaluate whether its use case requires
allowing external sharing.

When sharing with users outside an agency, the external users receive an
email with a link to the shared report or dashboard. The recipient must
sign into Power BI to view the shared content.

After the shared-to user signs into the Power BI service, they see the
shared report or dashboard in its own browser window, not in the usual
Power BI portal.

People outside the agency can't edit content in the shared report or
dashboard. They can interact with the charts and change filters or
slicers, but changes are not saved.

Only direct recipients see the shared report or dashboard. For example,
if a sharing invite is sent to powerbiuser1@contoso.com, only
powerbiuser1 sees the dashboard. No other user can see the dashboard,
even if powerbiuser1 forwards them the link. Powerbiuser1 must use the
same email address to access it: if powerbiuser1 signs in with any other
email address, they will not have access to the dashboard.

People outside the tenant agency cannot see any data if role or
row-level security is implemented on on-premises Analysis Services
tabular models.

### 2.1.1 Policy

- External sharing SHOULD be disabled unless the agency mission requires
  the capability.

- If external sharing is deemed appropriate, the agency SHOULD limit the
  sharing ability to a security group instead of the entire agency.

### 2.1.2 Resources

- [Power BI Tenant settings \| Microsoft
  Docs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/power-bi/guidance/admin-tenant-settings)

### 2.1.3 License Requirements

- N/A

### 2.1.4 Implementation

1.  In the **Power BI tenant admin portal**, go to **Export and Sharing
    Settings.**

2.  Disable the **External sharing** toggle.

3.  If the agency approves external sharing, select a specific security
    group that includes users who should be able to share data and
    reports externally.

## 2.2 Publish to Web SHOULD be Disabled

Power BI has a capability to publish reports and content to the web.
This capability creates a publicly accessible web URL that does not
require authentication or status as an AAD user to view it. While this
may be needed for a specific use case or collaboration scenario, it is a
best practice to keep this setting off by default to prevent unintended
and potentially sensitive data exposure.

If it is deemed necessary to make an exception and enable the feature,
admins should limit the ability to publish to the web to only specific
security groups, instead of allowing the entire agency to publish data
to the web.

### 2.2.1 Policy

- The Publish to Web feature SHOULD be disabled unless the agency
  mission requires the capability.

### 2.2.2 Resources

- [Power BI Tenant settings \| Microsoft
  Docs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/power-bi/guidance/admin-tenant-settings)

- [Power BI Security Baseline v2.0 \| Microsoft benchmarks GitHub
  repo](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/SecurityBenchmarks/blob/master/Azure%20Offer%20Security%20Baselines/2.0/power-bi-security-baseline-v2.0.xlsx)

### 2.2.3 License Requirements

- N/A

### 2.2.4 Implementation 

***Confirm Publish to web is disabled***

The **Publish to web** setting in the admin portal gives options for
users to create embed codes. It is recommended that agencies disallow
publishing to the web pending further justification reviews by
information security.

1.  Administrators can set **Publish to web** to **Disabled.**

2.  However, if **Publish to web** is set to **enabled**, admins
    can **Choose how embed codes work** to **Allow only existing embed
    codes**. In that case, users can create embed codes, but they must
    contact the tenant’s Power BI admin to allow them to do so.

## 2.3 Power BI Guest Access SHOULD be Disabled

A best practice is to disallow guest user access. Disallowing guest
access also aligns with zero trust principles. The agency with
potentially shareable Power BI resources and data in its tenant must
evaluate its unique sharing requirements and whether an exception should
be granted to allow external guests to access content in the agency’s
tenant.

Enabling this setting allows AAD Business-to-Business (AAD B2B) guest
users to access Power BI. If this setting is disabled, guest users
receive an error when trying to access Power BI. Disabling this setting
for the entire agency also prevents users from inviting guests to the
agency. Using the specific security groups option allows admins to
control which guest users can access Power BI.

The types of users are defined as follows (**Note**: these terms vary in
use across Microsoft documentation):

- **Internal users**: members of the agency’s M365 tenant.

- **External users**: members of a different M365 tenant.

- **Business to Business (B2B) guest users**: external users that are
  formally invited to view and/or edit Power BI workspace content and
  are added to the agency’s AAD as guest users. These users authenticate
  with their home organization/tenant and are granted access to Power BI
  content by virtue of being listed as guest users in the tenant’s AAD.

**Note**: Guest users are subject to restrictions to their experience
that are controlled by the AAD administrator. If the Power BI tenant’s
guest users will need to own and share Power BI content with others and
manage workspaces as Power BI workspace Admins, Microsoft recommends
changing the **Guest user permissions are limited** setting in AAD to
allow these users to use people pickers within the Power BI UX. Since
Power BI integrates natively with AAD, the AAD Baseline should be
consulted for additional guidance on managing guest users.

### 2.3.1 Policy

- Guest user access to the Power BI tenant SHOULD be disabled unless the
  agency mission requires the capability.

### 2.3.2 Resources

- [Power BI Tenant settings \| Microsoft
  Docs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/power-bi/guidance/admin-tenant-settings)

- [Power BI Security Baseline v2.0 \| Microsoft benchmarks GitHub
  repo](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/SecurityBenchmarks/blob/master/Azure%20Offer%20Security%20Baselines/2.0/power-bi-security-baseline-v2.0.xlsx)

### 2.3.3 License Requirements

- N/A

### 2.3.4 Implementation

1.  In the **tenant admin portal**, go to **Export and Sharing
    Settings**.

2.  Disable the **Allow Azure Active Directory guest users to access
    Power BI** toggle.

## 2.4 External Invitations SHOULD be Disabled

This setting controls whether Power BI allows inviting external users to
the agency’s organization through Power BI’s sharing workflows and
experiences. After an external user accepts the invite, they become an
AAD B2B guest user in the organization. They will then appear in user
pickers throughout the Power BI user experience.

If this setting is disabled:

- Existing guest users in the tenant organization continue to have
  access to any items they already had access to and continue to be
  listed in user picker experiences.

- An external user who is not already a guest user in the agency cannot
  be added to the agency through Power BI.

For maintaining least privilege, a best practice is to disable this
setting unless dictated by the mission need.

**Note**: To invite external users to the tenant, a user also needs the
AAD Guest Inviter role. The setting in this baseline statement only
controls the ability to invite guest users through Power BI. See the
*AAD Minimum Viable Secure Configuration Baseline* for more information
on roles.

### 2.4.1 Policy

- The **Invite external users to your organization** feature SHOULD be
  disabled unless agency mission requires the capability.

### 2.4.2 Resources

- [Power BI Tenant settings \| Microsoft
  Docs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/power-bi/guidance/admin-tenant-settings)

- [Distribute Power BI content to external guest users with AAD B2B \|
  Microsoft
  Docs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/power-bi/enterprise/service-admin-azure-ad-b2b)

- [Power BI Security Baseline v2.0 \| Microsoft benchmarks GitHub
  repo](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/SecurityBenchmarks/blob/master/Azure%20Offer%20Security%20Baselines/2.0/power-bi-security-baseline-v2.0.xlsx)

### 2.4.3 License Requirements

- N/A

### 2.4.4 Implementation

1.  In the tenant admin portal, go to **Export and Sharing Settings**.

2.  Disable the **Invite external users to your organization** toggle.

## 2.5 The External Editing Capability SHOULD be Disabled

It is possible to give external guest users the ability to edit and
manage Power BI content; however, this could have considerable data
security implications.

Microsoft notes that Power BI comes with this setting disabled.

If there is a mission need to allow external users to edit and manage
Power BI content, the recommended best practice is to assign these
entities to a security group.

### 2.5.1 Policy

- The external editing capability SHOULD be disabled unless agency
  mission requires the capability.

### 2.5.2 Resources

- [Power BI Tenant settings \| Microsoft
  Docs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/power-bi/guidance/admin-tenant-settings)

- [Azure AD B2B Guest users can now edit and manage content in Power BI
  to collaborate better across organizations \| Microsoft
  Docs](https://powerbi.microsoft.com/en-us/blog/azure-ad-b2b-guest-users-can-now-edit-and-manage-content-in-power-bi-to-collaborate-better-across-organizations/)

- [Power BI Security Baseline v2.0 \| Microsoft benchmarks GitHub
  repo](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/SecurityBenchmarks/blob/master/Azure%20Offer%20Security%20Baselines/2.0/power-bi-security-baseline-v2.0.xlsx)

### 2.5.3 License Requirements

If this setting is enabled, an AAD B2B guest user must have a Power BI
Pro license in a workspace other than the “My workspace” area to edit
and manage content within the inviting organization’s Power BI tenant.

### 2.5.4 Implementation

1.  In the tenant admin portal, go to **Export and Sharing Settings**.

2.  Disable the toggle labeled **Allow Azure Active Directory guest
    users to edit and manage content in the organization**.

## 2.6 Service Principals SHALL be Allowed to be Used to Securely Manage Application Identities 

Power BI supports the use of service principals to manage application
identities. Service principals can use application programming
interfaces (APIs) to access tenant-level features, which are controlled
by Power BI service admins and enabled for the entire agency or for
agency security groups. Access of service principals can be controlled
by creating dedicated security groups for them and using these groups in
any Power BI tenant level-settings. If service principals are employed
for Power BI, it is recommended that service principal credentials used
for encrypting or accessing Power BI be stored in a Key Vault, with
properly assigned access policies and regularly reviewed access
permissions.

**Several high-level use cases for service principals:**

- Power BI interactions with data sources. There will be some cases
  where a service principal is not possible from Power BI to a data
  source (e.g., Azure Table Storage).

- A user’s service principal for accessing the Power BI Service (e.g.,
  app.powerbi.com, app.powerbigov.us).

- Power BI Embedded and other users of the Power BI REST APIs to
  interact with PBI content.

**Best Practices for Service Principals:**

- Evaluate whether certificates or secrets are a more secure option for
  the implementation. Note that Microsoft recommends certificates over
  secrets.

- Use the principle of least privilege in implementing service
  principals; only provide the ability to create app registrations to
  entities that require it.

- Instead of enabling service principals for the entire agency,
  implement for a dedicated security group.

### 2.6.1 Policy

- Service Principals SHOULD be allowed for Power BI where applicable.

- Service Principal credentials used for encrypting or accessing Power
  BI SHALL NOT be stored in scripts or config files and SHALL be stored
  in a secure vault such as Azure Key Vault.

### 2.6.2 Resources

- [Automate Premium workspace and dataset tasks with service principal
  \| Microsoft
  Docs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/power-bi/admin/service-premium-service-principal)

- [Embed Power BI content with service principal and an application
  secret \| Microsoft
  Docs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/power-bi/developer/embedded/embed-service-principal)

- [Embed Power BI content with service principal and a certificate \|
  Microsoft
  Docs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/power-bi/developer/embedded/embed-service-principal-certificate)

- [Enable service principal authentication for read-only admin APIs \|
  Microsoft
  Docs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/power-bi/admin/read-only-apis-service-principal-authentication)

- [Microsoft Power BI Embedded Developer Code Samples \| Microsoft
  GitHub](https://github.com/microsoft/PowerBI-Developer-Samples/blob/master/Python/Encrypt%20credentials/README.md)

- [Microsoft Power BI Security Baseline, Baseline Statement IM-2 \|
  Microsoft
  Docs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/security/benchmark/azure/baselines/power-bi-security-baseline)

### 2.6.3 License Requirements

- N/A

### 2.6.4 Implementation

Standardize on a single authoritative identity and access management
source (note that AAD integrates natively for Power BI).

1.  In the **tenant settings**

2.  Confirm that service principals are enabled in the **Allow service principals to use Power BI APIs** option.

3.  Confirm that the service principal is restricted to a security group
related to Power BI, rather than open to the entire agency. (Note:
Service principals have access to any tenant settings for which
they are enabled. Depending on the agency’s admin settings, this
includes specific security groups or the entire agency.)

To restrict service principal access to specific tenant settings, it is
recommended to allow access only to specific security groups.
Alternatively, one can create a dedicated security group for service
principals and exclude it from the desired tenant settings.

## 2.7 ResourceKey Authentication SHOULD be Blocked 

This setting pertains to the security and development of Power BI
embedded content. The Power BI tenant states that “for extra security,
block using resource key-based authentication.” This baseline statement
recommends, but does not mandate, setting ResourceKey-based
authentication to the blocked state.

For streaming datasets created using the Power BI service user
interface, the dataset owner receives a URL that includes a resource
key. This key authorizes the requestor to push data into the dataset
without using an AAD OAuth bearer token, so please keep in mind the
implications of having a secret key in the URL when working with this
type of dataset and method.

This setting applies to streaming and PUSH datasets. If Resource
Key-based authentication is blocked, users will not be allowed send data
to streaming and PUSH datasets using the API with a resource key.
However, if developers have an approved need to leverage this feature,
an exception to the policy can be investigated.

### 2.7.1 Policy

- ResourceKey Authentication SHOULD be blocked unless a specific use
  case (e.g., streaming and/or PUSH datasets) merits its use.

### 2.7.2 Resources

- [Power BI Tenant settings \| Microsoft
  Docs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/power-bi/guidance/admin-tenant-settings)

- [Real-time streaming in Power BI \| Microsoft
  Docs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/power-bi/connect-data/service-real-time-streaming)

### 2.7.3 License Requirements

- N/A

### 2.7.4 Implementation

1.  Under **Developer Settings** in the Power BI tenant admin portal,
    toggle **Block ResourceKey Authentication** to an enabled state.

## 2.8 Python and R Visual Sharing SHOULD be Disabled

Power BI can interact with Python and R scripts to integrate
visualizations from these languages. Python visuals are created from
Python scripts, which could contain code with security or privacy risks.
When attempting to view or interact with a Python visual for the first
time, a user is presented with a security warning message. Python and R
visuals should only be enabled if the author and source are trusted, or
after a code review of the Python/R script(s) in question is conducted
and deems the scripts free of security risks.

### 2.8.1 Policy

- R and Python interactions SHOULD be disabled.

### 2.8.2 Resources

- [Power BI Visuals and Python \| Microsoft
  Docs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/power-bi/connect-data/desktop-python-visuals)

### 2.8.3 License Requirements

- N/A

### 2.8.4 Implementation

1.  In the **Power BI tenant**, go to **R and Python Visuals Settings**.

2.  Toggle off the **Interact with and share R and Python visuals**
    option.

## 2.9 Data Stewards and Power BI Admins SHOULD Discover, Classify, and Label Sensitive Data

There are multiple ways to secure sensitive information, such as warning
users, encryption, or blocking attempts to share. Use Microsoft
Information Protection sensitivity labels on Power BI reports,
dashboards, datasets, and dataflows to guard sensitive content against
unauthorized data access and leakage. This can also guard against
unwanted aggregation and commingling.

**Note**: At this baseline’s time of writing, data loss prevention (DLP)
profiles are in preview status for Power BI. Once released for general
availability and government, DLP profiles represent another available
tool for securing power Power BI datasets. Refer to the *Defender for
Office 365 Minimum Viable Secure Configuration Baseline* for more on
DLP.

### 2.9.1 Policy

- Sensitivity labels SHOULD be enabled for Power BI and employed for
  sensitive data per enterprise data protection policies.

### 2.9.2 Resources

- [Enable sensitivity labels in Power BI \| Microsoft
  Docs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/power-bi/admin/service-security-enable-data-sensitivity-labels)

- [Data loss prevention policies for Power BI
  (preview)](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/power-bi/enterprise/service-security-dlp-policies-for-power-bi)

- [Data Protection in Power
  BI](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/power-bi/enterprise/service-security-data-protection-overview)

- [Power BI Security Baseline v2.0 \| Microsoft benchmarks GitHub
  repo](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/SecurityBenchmarks/blob/master/Azure%20Offer%20Security%20Baselines/2.0/power-bi-security-baseline-v2.0.xlsx)

### 2.9.3 License Requirements

- An Azure Information Protection Premium P1 or Premium P2 license is
  required to apply or view Microsoft Information Protection sensitivity
  labels in Power BI. Azure Information Protection can be purchased
  either standalone or through one of the Microsoft licensing suites.
  See [Azure Information Protection
  pricing](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/information-protection/) for
  detail.

- Azure Information Protection sensitivity labels need to be migrated to
  the Microsoft Information Protection Unified Labeling platform to be
  used in Power BI.

- To be able to apply labels to Power BI content and files, a user must
  have a Power BI Pro or Premium Per User (PPU) license in addition to
  one of the previously mentioned Azure Information Protection licenses.

- Before enabling sensitivity labels on the agency’s tenant, make sure
  that sensitivity labels have been defined and published for relevant
  users and groups. See [Create and configure sensitivity labels and
  their
  policies](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-365/compliance/create-sensitivity-labels)
  for detail.

### 2.9.4 Implementation 

**Enable Sensitivity Labels in Power BI:**

Sensitivity labels must be enabled on the tenant before they can be used
in both the Power BI service and in Desktop. This section describes how
to enable them in the tenant settings.

To enable sensitivity labels on the tenant:

1.  Navigate to the **Power BI Admin portal**-\>**Tenant
    settings** pane-\> **Information protection** section.

2.  In the **Information Protection** section, perform the following
    steps:

3.  Open **Allow users to apply sensitivity labels for Power BI
    content**.

4.  Enable the toggle.

5.  Define who can apply and change sensitivity labels in Power BI
    assets. By default, everyone in the agency will be able to apply
    sensitivity labels; however, one can choose to enable setting
    sensitivity labels only for specific users or security groups. With
    either the entire agency or specific security groups selected, one
    can exclude specific subsets of users or security groups.

6.  When sensitivity labels are enabled for the entire agency,
    exceptions are typically security groups.

7.  When sensitivity labels are enabled only for specific users or
    security groups, exceptions are typically specific users.
       
This approach makes it possible to prevent certain users from applying
sensitivity labels in Power BI, even if they belong to a group that
has permissions to do so.

8.  Click **Apply**.

## 2.10 Audit Logs SHALL be Enabled in Power BI Tenant

The Power BI tenant has a setting for audit log generation to monitor
internal activity and compliance. Users within the agency can use
auditing to monitor actions taken in Power BI by other users in the
agency. Power BI audit logs are always available for tenants that have
enabled recording user and admin activity in the Office 365 Admin
Portal, in which case this setting appears enabled but greyed out in the
tenant settings.

### 2.10.1 Policy

- Power BI audit log generation SHALL be enabled in the Power BI tenant.

### 2.10.2 Resources

- [Power BI Tenant settings \| Microsoft
  Docs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/power-bi/guidance/admin-tenant-settings)

- [National Cybersecurity Protection System-Cloud Interface Reference
  Architecture Volume
  1](https://www.cisa.gov/sites/default/files/publications/NCPS%20Cloud%20Interface%20RA%20Volume%20One%20%282021-05-14%29.pdf)

- [National Cybersecurity Protection System - Cloud Interface Reference
  Architecture Volume
  2](https://www.cisa.gov/sites/default/files/publications/NCPS%20Cloud%20Interface%20RA%20Volume%20Two%202021-06-11%20%28508%20COMPLIANT%29.pdf)

- [Power BI Security Baseline v2.0 \| Microsoft benchmarks GitHub
  repo](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/SecurityBenchmarks/blob/master/Azure%20Offer%20Security%20Baselines/2.0/power-bi-security-baseline-v2.0.xlsx)

### 2.10.3 License Requirements

- N/A

### 2.10.4 Implementation 

1.  In the **Power BI tenant**, go to **Audit and Usage Settings.**

2.  Enable **Create audit logs for internal activity auditing and
    compliance**. This setting may already be enabled and greyed out if
    audit recording has been turned on in the M365 admin portal.


# Acknowledgements

In addition to acknowledging the important contributions of a diverse
team of Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) experts,
CISA thanks the following federal agencies and private sector
organizations that provided input during the development of the Secure
Business Cloud Application’s security configuration baselines in
response to Section 3 of [Executive Order (EO) 14028, *Improving the
Nation’s
Cybersecurity*](https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2021/05/17/2021-10460/improving-the-nations-cybersecurity):

- Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB)

- Department of the Interior (DOI)

- National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA)

- Sandia National Laboratories (Sandia)

- U.S. Census Bureau (USCB)

- U.S. Geological Survey (USGS)

- U.S. Office of Personnel Management (OPM)

- U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA)

The cross-agency collaboration and partnerships developed during this
initiative serve as an example for solving complex problems faced by the
federal government.

**Cybersecurity Innovation Tiger Team (CITT) Leadership**

Beau Houser (USCB), Sanjay Gupta (SBA), Michael Witt (NASA), James
Saunders (OPM), Han Lin (Sandia), Andrew Havely (DOI).

**CITT Authors**

Trafenia Salzman (SBA), Benjamin McChesney (OPM), Robert Collier (USCB),
Matthew Snitchler (Sandia), Darryl Purdy (USCB), Brandon Frankens
(NASA), Brandon Goss (NASA), Nicole Bogeajis (DOI/USGS), Kevin Kelly
(DOI), Adnan Ehsan (CFPB), Michael Griffin (CFPB), Vincent Urias
(Sandia), Angela Calabaza (Sandia).

**CITT Contributors**

Dr. Mukesh Rohatgi (MITRE), Lee Szilagyi (MITRE), Nanda Katikaneni
(MITRE), Ted Kolovos (MITRE), Thomas Comeau (MITRE), Karen Caraway
(MITRE), Jackie Whieldon (MITRE), Jeanne Firey (MITRE), Kenneth Myers
(General Services Administration).

# Implementation Considerations

## Information Protection Considerations

Several best practices and approaches are available to protect sensitive
data in Power BI.

- Leverage sensitivity labels via Microsoft Information Protection.

- Power BI allows service users to bring their own key to protect data
  at rest.

- Customers have the option to keep data sources on-premises and
  leverage Direct Query or Live Connect with an on-premises data gateway
  to minimize data exposure to the cloud service.

- Implement Row Level Security in Power BI datasets.

**Implementation Steps:**

**Apply sensitivity labels from data sources to their data in Power BI**

When this setting is enabled, Power BI datasets that connect to
sensitivity-labeled data in supported data sources can inherit those
labels, so the data remains classified and secure when brought into
Power BI. For details about sensitivity label inheritance from data
sources, see Sensitivity label inheritance from data sources (preview).

***To enable sensitivity label inheritance from data sources:***

1.  Navigate to the Power BI tenant settings.

2. Select **Information protection** -\> **Apply sensitivity labels
    from data sources to their data in Power BI (preview).**

3. Enable **Restrict content with protected labels from being shared
    via link with everyone in your agency**.

When this setting is enabled, users can't generate a sharing link for
people in the agency for content with protection settings in the
sensitivity label.

Sensitivity labels with protection settings include encryption or
content markings. For example, the agency may have a "Highly
Confidential" label that includes encryption and applies a "Highly
Confidential" watermark to content with this label. Therefore, when this
tenant setting is enabled and a report has a sensitivity label with
protection settings, then users can't create sharing links for people in
the agency.

**Information Protection Prerequisites Specific to Power BI**

- An Azure Information Protection Premium P1 or Premium P2 license is
  required to apply or view Microsoft Information Protection sensitivity
  labels in Power BI. Azure Information Protection can be purchased
  either standalone or through one of the Microsoft licensing suites.
  See [Azure Information Protection
  pricing](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/information-protection/) for
  detail.

- Azure Information Protection sensitivity labels need to be migrated to
  the Microsoft Information Protection Unified Labeling platform in
  order for them to be used in Power BI.

- To be able to apply labels to Power BI content and files, a user must
  have a Power BI Pro or Premium Per User (PPU) license in addition to
  one of the previously mentioned Azure Information Protection licenses.

- Before enabling sensitivity labels on the agency’s tenant, make sure
  that sensitivity labels have been defined and published for relevant
  users and groups. See [Create and configure sensitivity labels and
  their
  policies](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-365/compliance/create-sensitivity-labels)
  for detail.

**High-Level Steps to Use Bring Your Own Key (BYOK) Feature in Power
BI**

First, confirm having the latest Power BI Management cmdlet. Install the
latest version by running Install-Module -Name MicrosoftPowerBIMgmt.
More information about the Power BI cmdlet and its parameters is
available in [Power BI PowerShell cmdlet
module](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/power-bi/overview?view=powerbi-ps).

Follow steps in Bring Your Own (encryption) Keys for Power BI \|
Microsoft Docs.

**Row Level Security Implementation**

Row Level Security (RLS) involves several configuration steps, which
should be completed in the following order.

1.  Create a report in Microsoft Power BI Desktop.

2.  Import the data.

3.  Confirm the data model between both tables.

4.  Create the report visuals.

5. Create RLS roles in Power BI Desktop by using DAX.

6. Test the roles in Power BI Desktop.

7. Deploy the report to Microsoft Power BI service.

8. Add members to the role in Power BI service.

9. Test the roles in Power BI service.

- Reference Microsoft Power BI documentation for additional detail on
  [Row Level Security
  configuration](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/power-bi/enterprise/service-admin-rls).

**Related Resources**

- [Sensitivity labels in Power BI \| Microsoft
  Docs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/power-bi/admin/service-security-sensitivity-label-overview)

- [Bring your own encryption keys for Power BI \| Microsoft
  Docs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/power-bi/admin/service-encryption-byok)

- [What is an on-premises data gateway? \| Microsoft
  Docs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/data-integration/gateway/service-gateway-onprem)

- [Row-level security (RLS) with Power BI \| Microsoft
  Docs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/power-bi/admin/service-admin-rls)

- [Power BI PowerShell cmdlets and modules references \| Microsoft
  Docs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/power-bi/overview?view=powerbi-ps)

## Source Code and Credential Security Considerations

Exposure of secrets via collaboration spaces is a security concern when
using Power BI.

For Power BI embedded applications, it is recommended to implement a
source code scanning solution to identify credentials within the code of
any app housing embedded Power BI report(s). A source code scanner can
also encourage moving discovered credentials to more secure locations,
such as Azure Key Vault.

Store encryption keys or service principal credentials used for
encrypting or accessing Power BI in a Key Vault, assign proper access
policies to the vault and regularly review access permissions.

For regulatory or other compliance reasons, some agencies may need to
bring their own keys (BYOK), which is supported by Power BI. By default,
Power BI uses Microsoft-managed keys to encrypt the data. In Power BI
Premium, users can use their own keys for data at-rest that is imported
into a dataset (see [Data source and storage
considerations](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/power-bi/enterprise/service-encryption-byok#data-source-and-storage-considerations)
for more information).

- For Power BI embedded applications, a best practice is to implement a
  source code scanning solution to identify credentials within the code
  of the app housing the embedded Power BI report(s).

- If required under specific regulations, agencies need a strategy for
  maintaining control and governance of their keys. The bring your own
  key (BYOK) functionality is one option.

**Prerequisites**

- Implementers must do their own due diligence in selecting a source
  code scanner that integrates with their specific environment.
  Microsoft documentation [provides a
  link](https://owasp.org/www-community/Source_Code_Analysis_Tools) to
  third-party scanners at the Open Web Application Security Project
  (OWASP). This baseline does not endorse or advise on the selection or
  use of any specific third-party tool.

- If BYOK is deemed to be a requirement:

- Power BI Premium is required for BYOK.

- To use BYOK, the Power BI tenant admin must upload data to the Power
  BI service from a Power BI Desktop (PBIX) file.

- RSA keys must be 4096-bit.

- Enable BYOK in the tenant.

**BYOK Implementation High-Level Steps**

Enable BYOK at the tenant level via PowerShell by first introducing the
encryption keys created and stored in Azure Key Vault to the Power BI
tenant.

Then assign these encryption keys per Premium capacity for encrypting
content in the capacity.

To enable bringing the agency’s key for Power BI, the high-level
configuration steps are as follows:

1.  Add the Power BI service as a service principal for the key vault,
    with wrap and unwrap permissions.

2. Create an RSA key with a 4096-bit length (or use an existing key of
    this type), with wrap and unwrap permissions.

3. To turn on BYOK, Power BI Tenant administrators must use a set of
    Power BI [Admin PowerShell
    Cmdlets](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/microsoftpowerbimgmt.admin/?view=powerbi-ps)
    added to the Power BI Admin Cmdlets.

    Follow [detailed
    steps](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/power-bi/enterprise/service-encryption-byok)
    from Microsoft.

**Related Resources:**

- [Bring your own encryption keys for Power BI \| Microsoft
  Docs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/power-bi/enterprise/service-encryption-byok)

- [Microsoft Source Code Analysis Developer Frequently Asked
  Questions](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/security/develop/security-code-analysis-faq)

- For GitHub, the agency can use the native secret scanning feature to
  identify credentials or other form of secrets within code at [About
  secret scanning \| GitHub
  docs](https://docs.github.com/github/administering-a-repository/about-secret-scanning)

- [Announcing General Availability of Bring Your Own Key (BYOK) for
  Power BI
  Premium](https://powerbi.microsoft.com/en-us/blog/announcing-general-availability-of-bring-your-own-key-byok-for-power-bi-premium/)

## File Export and Visual Artifact Considerations

Exporting data from Power BI to image files and comma-separated value
(.csv) file format has data security implications. For example, if
row-level security (RLS) features are in use in Power BI, an export to
image or .csv could allow a user to inadvertently decouple that setting
and expose data to a party who does not have permissions or a need to
know that previously secured data. A similar scenario applies for
information protection sensitivity labels.

A message regarding this condition is provided in the Power BI tenant
settings for the particular types of exports.

In contrast to this, Power BI applies these protection settings (RLS,
sensitivity labels) when the report data leaves Power BI via a supported
export method, such as export to Excel, PowerPoint, or PDF, download to
.pbix, and Save (Desktop). In this case, only authorized users will be
able to open protected files.

**Copy and Paste Visuals:**

Power BI can allow users to copy and paste visuals from Power BI reports
as static images into external applications. This could represent a data
security risk in some contexts. The agency must evaluate whether this
represents risk for its data artifacts and whether to turn this off in
the Export and Sharing Settings.

**Related Resources:**

- [Sensitivity labels in Power BI \| Microsoft
  Docs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/power-bi/enterprise/service-security-sensitivity-label-overview)

- [Say No to Export Data, Yes to Analyze in
  Excel](https://radacad.com/say-no-to-export-data-yes-to-analyze-in-excel-power-bi-and-excel-can-talk)

- [Power BI Governance – Why you should consider disabling Export to
  Excel](https://data-marc.com/2020/04/13/power-bi-governance-why-you-should-consider-to-disable-export-to-excel/)

**Implementation settings:**

1.  In the **Power BI tenant** settings, under **Export and sharing
    settings**, admins can opt to toggle off both **Export reports as
    image files** and **Export to .csv**.

2. In the **Power BI tenant** settings, under **Export and sharing
    settings**, admins can opt to toggle off **Copy and paste visuals**.

####### Establishing Private Network Access Connections Using Azure Private Link

When connecting to Azure services intended to supply Power BI datasets,
agencies should consider connecting their Power BI tenant to an Azure
Private Link endpoint and disable public internet access.

In this configuration, Azure Private Link and Azure Networking private
endpoints are used to send data traffic privately using Microsoft's
backbone network infrastructure. The data travels the Microsoft private
network backbone instead of going across the Internet.

Using private endpoints with Power BI ensures that traffic will flow
over the Azure backbone to a private endpoint for Azure cloud-based
resources.

Within this configuration, there is also the capability to disable
public access to Power BI datasets.

**High-Level Implementation Steps**

Note: It is imperative that the VNET and VM are configured before
disabling public internet access.

1.  Enable private endpoints for Power BI.

2. Create a Power BI resource in the Azure portal.

3. Create a virtual network.

4. Create a virtual machine (VM).

5. Create a private endpoint.

6. Connect to a VM using Remote Desktop (RDP).

7. Access Power BI privately from the virtual machine.

8. Disable public access for Power BI.

**Related Resources:**

- [Private endpoints for accessing Power BI \| Microsoft
  Docs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/power-bi/enterprise/service-security-private-links)

- [Microsoft Power BI Security Baseline, Baseline Statement NS-3 \|
  Microsoft
  Docs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/security/benchmark/azure/baselines/power-bi-security-baseline)
