# 1. Introduction

SharePoint Online is a web-based collaboration and document management
platform. Though highly flexible, it is primarily used to store
documents and communicate information across organizations.
Organizations can create sites, pages, document libraries, lists and
custom applications.

In this baseline, the types of SharePoint Online users are defined as
follows (Note: these terms vary in use across Microsoft documentation
and within the context of different M365 workloads (e.g., Teams vs
SharePoint Online):

1.  **Internal users**: members of the agency’s M365 organization.

2.  **External users**: members of a different M365 organization.

3.  **Business to Business (B2B) guest users**: external users that are
    formally invited to collaborate and added to the agency’s Azure
    Active Directory (AAD) as guest users. These users authenticate with
    their home organization/tenant and are granted access by virtue of
    being listed as guest users on the tenant’s AAD.

4.  **Unmanaged users**: users that are not members of any M365 tenant
    or organization (e.g., recipients of an “Anyone link.”)

    External sharing within SharePoint Online is defined as users within
    an organization sharing content with people outside the organization
    (external users, B2B guest users, or unmanaged users), or with
    licensed users on multiple Microsoft 365 subscriptions if the agency
    has more than one subscription. SharePoint has external sharing
    settings at both the organizational level and the site level
    (previously called the "site collection" level). To allow external
    sharing on any site, it must be allowed at the organization level.
    Then external sharing can be restricted for other sites. If a site's
    external sharing option and the organization-level sharing option
    don't match, the most restrictive value will always be applied.

    Source:
    <https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sharepoint/external-sharing-overview>

## 1.1 Resources

**<u>License Compliance and Copyright</u>**

Portions of this document are adapted from documents in Microsoft’s
[Microsoft
365](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/microsoft-365-docs/blob/public/LICENSE)
and
[Azure](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/azure-docs/blob/main/LICENSE)
GitHub repositories. The respective documents are subject to copyright
and are adapted under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0
International license. Source documents are linked throughout this
document. The United States Government has adapted selections of these
documents to develop innovative and scalable configuration standards to
strengthen the security of widely used cloud-based software services.

## 1.2 Assumptions

The **License Requirements** sections of this document assume the
organization is using an [M365
E3](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-365/compare-microsoft-365-enterprise-plans)
or [G3](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-365/government)
license level. Therefore, only licenses not included in E3/G3 are
listed.

# 2. Baselines

## 2.1 File and Folder Links Default Sharing Settings SHALL Be Set to "Specific People (Only the People the User Specifies)"

This policy ensures that when sharing files in SharePoint, there are
several possible scopes, including agency-wide or “anyone with the
link.”

### 2.1.1 Policy

- File and folder links default sharing setting SHALL be set to
  “Specific People (Only the People the User Specifies)”.

### 2.1.2 Resources

- [File and folder links \| Microsoft
  Documents](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sharepoint/turn-external-sharing-on-or-off#file-and-folder-links)

### 2.1.3 License Requirements

- N/A

### 2.1.4 Implementation

In the **SharePoint admin** **center**:

1.  In the left-hand navigation bar, click **Policies** -\> **Sharing**
    to display sharing settings.

2.  Under **File and folder links**, ensure that the default link type
    is set to **Specific people (only the people the user specifies)**.

## 2.2 External Sharing SHOULD be Set to “New and Existing Guests” and Managed Through Approved Domains and/or Security Groups Per Interagency Collaboration Needs.

SharePoint allows sharing with users who are outside the agency, which
is convenient but may pose a data loss or other information security
risk. This working group recommends allowlisting by domains and security
groups per interagency collaboration needs.

**Note**: Adjusting this setting will adjust external sharing
for OneDrive and Teams to the same, selected level. OneDrive and Teams
can be less permissive (not more permissive) than SharePoint Online.

Adding approved domains and/or security groups will also be reflected in
OneDrive external sharing settings.

External access may be granted on a per-domain basis. This may be
desirable in some cases, e.g., for agency-to-agency collaboration (see
the CIO Council's [Interagency Collaboration
Program](https://community.max.gov/display/Egov/Interagency+Collaboration+Program)’s
OMB Max Site for a list of .gov domains for sharing).

### 2.2.1 Policy

- External sharing SHOULD be limited to approved domains and security
  groups per interagency collaboration needs.

### 2.2.2 Resources

- [Manage sharing settings \| Microsoft
  Documents](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sharepoint/turn-external-sharing-on-or-off)

### 2.2.3 License Requirements

- N/A

### 2.2.4 Implementation 

To adjust sharing settings, in the **SharePoint admin center**:

1.  Select **Policies** -\> **Sharing**.

2.  Adjust external sharing slider to **New and Existing Guests.**

3.  Expand **More external sharing settings.**

4.  Select **Limit external sharing by domain**.

5.  Select **Add domains.**

6.  Add domains.

7.  Select **Save.**

8.  Select **Allow only users in specific security groups to share
    externally**.

9.  Select **Manage security groups.**

10. Add security groups.

11. Select **Save.**

## 2.3 Sensitive SharePoint Sites SHOULD Adjust Their Default Sharing Settings to Those Best Aligning to Their Sensitivity Level 

SharePoint allows sharing with users who are outside the agency, which
is convenient but may pose a data loss or other information security
risk. This working group recommends outside of the default
organizational settings agencies should evaluate each created site and
adjust sharing settings best aligned to their respective sensitivity
level.

### 2.3.1 Policy

- Sharing settings for specific SharePoint sites SHOULD align to their
  sensitivity level.

### 2.3.2 Resources

- [Managing SharePoint Online Security: A Team Effort \| Microsoft
  Build](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-365/community/sharepoint-security-a-team-effort)

### 2.3.3 License Requirements

- N/A

### 2.3.4 Implementation 

To limit external sharing by domain, in the **SharePoint admin center**:

1.  Select **Sites.**

2.  Select **Active sites.**

3.  Select **Site name.**

4.  Select **Add domains.**

5.  Select **Policies.**

6.  Under **external sharing**, select **Edit**.

7.  Select permissions aligning to the risk posture associated with the
    sensitivity of the SharePoint site.

8.  Select **Save.**

## 2.4 Expiration Times for Guest Access to a Site or OneDrive, and Reauthentication Expiration Times for People Who Use a Verification Code, SHOULD Be Determined By Mission Needs / Agency Policy or Else Defaulted to 30 Days.

SharePoint allows sharing with users who are outside the agency, which
is convenient but may pose a data loss or other information security
risk. This working group recommends setting an expiration time for guest
access to the site or OneDrive.

**Note**: Adjusting this setting will adjust external sharing
for OneDrive and Teams to the same, specified expiration times.

### 2.4.1 Policy

- Expiration timers for ‘guest access to a site or OneDrive’ and ‘people
  who use a verification code’ SHOULD be set.

- Expiration timers SHOULD be set to 30 days.

### 2.4.2 License Requirements

- N/A

### 2.4.3 Resources

- [Managing SharePoint Online Security: A Team Effort \| Microsoft
  Build](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-365/community/sharepoint-security-a-team-effort)

### 2.4.4 Implementation 

To limit external sharing by domain, in the **SharePoint admin center**:

1.  Select **Policies** -\> **Sharing**.

2.  Expand **More external sharing settings.**

3.  Select **Guest access to a site or OneDrive will expire
    automatically after this many days.**

4.  Enter “30” days.

5.  Select **People who use a verification code must reauthenticate
    after this many days**.

6.  Enter “30 days”.

## 2.5 Users SHALL Be Prevented from Running Custom Scripts

Allowing users to run custom scripts can potentially allow malicious
scripts to run in a trusted environment. For this reason, running custom
scripts should not be allowed.

### 2.5.1 Policy

- Users SHALL be prevented from running custom scripts.

### 2.5.2 Resources

- [Allow or prevent custom script \| Microsoft
  Documents](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sharepoint/allow-or-prevent-custom-script)

### 2.5.3 License Requirements

- N/A

### 2.5.4 Implementation

In the **SharePoint Classic admin center**:

1.  Scroll to the **Custom Script** setting and select both of the
    following:

2.  **Prevent users from running custom script on personal sites.**

3.  **Prevent users from running custom script on self-service created
    sites.**

# Acknowledgements

In addition to acknowledging the important contributions of a diverse
team of Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) experts,
CISA thanks the following federal agencies and private sector
organizations that provided input during the development of the Secure
Business Cloud Application’s security configuration baselines in
response to Section 3 of [Executive Order (EO) 14028, *Improving the
Nation’s
Cybersecurity*](https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2021/05/17/2021-10460/improving-the-nations-cybersecurity):

- Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB)

- Department of the Interior (DOI)

- National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA)

- Sandia National Laboratories (Sandia)

- U.S. Census Bureau (USCB)

- U.S. Geological Survey (USGS)

- U.S. Office of Personnel Management (OPM)

- U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA)

The cross-agency collaboration and partnerships developed during this
initiative serve as an example for solving complex problems faced by the
federal government.

**Cybersecurity Innovation Tiger Team (CITT) Leadership**

Beau Houser (USCB), Sanjay Gupta (SBA), Michael Witt (NASA), James
Saunders (OPM), Han Lin (Sandia), Andrew Havely (DOI).

**CITT Authors**

Trafenia Salzman (SBA), Benjamin McChesney (OPM), Robert Collier (USCB),
Matthew Snitchler (Sandia), Darryl Purdy (USCB), Brandon Frankens
(NASA), Brandon Goss (NASA), Nicole Bogeajis (DOI/USGS), Kevin Kelly
(DOI), Adnan Ehsan (CFPB), Michael Griffin (CFPB), Vincent Urias
(Sandia), Angela Calabaza (Sandia).

**CITT Contributors**

Dr. Mukesh Rohatgi (MITRE), Lee Szilagyi (MITRE), Nanda Katikaneni
(MITRE), Ted Kolovos (MITRE), Thomas Comeau (MITRE), Karen Caraway
(MITRE), Jackie Whieldon (MITRE), Jeanne Firey (MITRE), Kenneth Myers
(General Services Administration).
